feat: endpoint plugin (#971)
aws/aws-advanced-jdbc-wrapper: docs/using-the-jdbc-driver/using-plugins/UsingTheLimitlessConnectionPlugin.md

# Using the Limitless Connection Plugin

> ## What is Amazon Aurora Limitless Database?

Author: Interestingly, in all of the announcements/publications of Limitless, I've only seen it referred to as "Amazon Aurora Limitless Database" singular. I think this is because "Database" is part of its name.

> Amazon Aurora Limitless Database allows users to horizontally scale their Aurora Databases, handling millions of write transactions per second and managing petabytes of data. To learn more, please [read Amazon Aurora Limitless documentation](// TODO).

Reviewer: Can you add here whether it is a new type of database or a new type of settings within Aurora?

> Amazon Aurora Limitless Database allows users to horizontally scale their Aurora Databases, handling millions of write transactions per second and managing petabytes of data. To learn more, please [read Amazon Aurora Limitless documentation](// TODO).

Author: Hmmm i see. It does sound ambiguous. Im gonna cut out any mention of the user.
"Amazon Aurora Limitless Database is a new type of database that can horizontally scale to handle millions of write transactions per second and manage petabytes of data."

> 

Reviewer: I think you could add here something along the lines of

"Users will be able to use the AWS JDBC Driver with Aurora Limitless just like any other Aurora database. However some configurations need to be set to make things work properly/as expected"

## Why use the Limitless Connection Plugin?

> When connecting to an Amazon Aurora Limitless Database, clients will connect to the databases shard group endpoint, and be routed to a transaction router via Route 53.

Reviewer: I would add a sentence here before.

"Limitless introduces a new endpoint for the databases - the shard group endpoint that is managed by Route 53."

Then...

"When using Limitless with the AWS JDBC Driver, users will now connect to this endpoint and be routed... etc."

Author: Done!

Unfortunately, Route 53 is limited in its ability to load balance, and can allow uneven work loads on transaction routers.
The Limitless Connection Plugin addresses this by performing client-side load balancing with load awareness. 

> The Limitless Connection Plugin achieves this by periodically polling for load metric metadata of the transaction routers and caches it.

Reviewer: and caching it.

Author: Done!

When a new connection is made, the plugin will direct the connection to a transaction router selected using a weighted round-robin strategy.
Routers with a higher load will be assigned a lower weight, and routers with a lower load will be assigned a higher weight.

## How to use the Limitless Connection Plugin with the AWS JDBC Driver
To enable the Endpoint Connection Plugin, add the plugin code `limitless` to the [`wrapperPlugins`](../UsingTheJdbcDriver.md#connection-plugin-manager-parameters) value, or to the current [driver profile](../UsingTheJdbcDriver.md#connection-plugin-manager-parameters).

> The URL used to connect to a Limitless database, should be the DB Shard Group URL.

Reviewer: I think you need to be more imperative here

"Users have to use the shard URL to connect to a Limitless database."

Author: Done!

### Endpoint Connection Plugin Parameters
| Parameter                                         |  Value  | Required | Description                                                                                    | Default Value | Example Value |
|---------------------------------------------------|:-------:|:--------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| `limitlessTransactionRouterMonitorIntervalMs`     | Integer |    No    | Interval in milliseconds between polling for endpoints to the database.                        | `15000`       | `30000`       |
| `limitlessTransactionRouterMonitorDisposalTimeMs` | Integer |    No    | Interval in milliseconds for an endpoint monitor to be considered inactive and to be disposed. | `600000`      | `300000`      |

### Use with other plugins
The Limitless Connection Plugin is compatible with authentication type plugins such as the IAM and AWS Secrets Manager.

The Failover, Host Monitoring, and Read Write Splitting Plugins are also compatible with the Limitless Connection Plugin.  

> However, they are not recommended to be used with the Limitless Connection Plugin as they are not designed to be used with the Amazon Limitless Databases. 

Reviewer: I think you could put this in an

> IMPORTANT

block if it is really not recommended to use this plugin with the others.

Author: Done!
Also thank you for all the comments/suggestions!

They will not provide any extra value and will add unnecessary computation and memory overhead.

### Use with Connection Pools

> Connection pools keep connections open for reuse. 
> However, this may work against the client-side load-balancing of the Limitless Connection Plugin and cause an imbalanced load on transaction routers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connection pools keep connections open for reuse, but this may work against the client-side load-balancing of the Limitless Connection Plugin and cause an imbalanced load on transaction routers.
```

Author: Done!

> To mitigate this, consider lowering properties that may reduce number of idle connections or increase the lifetime of a connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To mitigate this, consider setting connection properties that reduce number of idle connections or increase the lifetime of connections.
```

Author: Done! 
Also thank you for looking at my PR and giving comments/suggestions!

| `limitlessConnectMaxRetries`                      | Integer |    No    | Max number of connection retries the Limitless Connection Plugin will attempt.                                                                                                                                               | `5`           | `13`          |

### Use with other plugins
The Limitless Connection Plugin is compatible with authentication type plugins such as the IAM and AWS Secrets Manager Plugins.

> [!IMPORTANT]\
> The Failover, Host Monitoring, and Read Write Splitting Plugins are also compatible with the Limitless Connection Plugin.  
However, they are not recommended to be used with the Limitless Connection Plugin as they are not designed to be used with the Amazon Limitless Databases. 
They will not provide any extra value and will add unnecessary computation and memory overhead.

### Use with Connection Pools
Connection pools keep connections open for reuse, but this may work against the client-side load-balancing of the Limitless Connection Plugin and cause an imbalanced load on transaction routers.

> To mitigate this, consider setting connection properties that may reduce number of idle connections or increase the lifetime of connections.

Reviewer 3: Can we also suggest to use internal connection pool?

If you are using HikariCP, some of these properties are `idleTimeout`, `maxLifetime`, `minimumIdle`.

## Sample Code

> [LimitlessPostgresqlExample](../../../examples/AWSDriverExample/src/main/java/software/amazon/EndpointPluginExample.java)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Limitless PostgreSQL Example](../../../examples/AWSDriverExample/src/main/java/software/amazon/EndpointPluginExample.java)
```
